#### Dspy

- iterative prompt optimization
- few shot prompting
- cot
- benchmark prompting


#### Methods

- length control

- **what should be the control input from the user?**

- [Aspect-Controllable Opinion Summarization](https://aclanthology.org/2021.emnlp-main.528.pdf)
    - token level aspect prediction -> sentence level aspect prediction -> doc level 

- [Incorporating Question Answering-Based Signals into Abstractive Summarization via Salient Span Selection](https://aclanthology.org/2023.eacl-main.42.pdf)
    - Mark noun phrases (NPs) in the input document as salient if the predicate-argument relation they participate in is present in the gold summary. For each NP, a wh-question that is answered by the NP is generated from the text. Then, the NP is marked as salient if the generated wh-question is correctly answered in the gold summary according to a learned QA model.
    
    - The QA-based salience signal is incorporated into a two-stage summarization model. First, a phrase salience classifier is trained to identify which NPs in the document are salient. Then, the predicted salient spans are marked in the input document with special tokens and used to conditionally generate a summary of the document with a fine-tuned BART model.

    - A controllable summarization model to also not include content which is not marked as salient.

    - A data augmentation procedure that removes sentences unsupported by any salient span and generates new training examples based on what content should be able to be generated by subsets of the salient span.

- [Controllable Abstractive Dialogue Summarization with Sketch Supervision](https://aclanthology.org/2021.findings-acl.454.pdf)
    - First automatically create a summary sketch that contains user intent information and essential key phrases that may appear in summary.

    - Construct a summary sketch by concatenating utterance index, user intent label, and compressed utterance within the entire dialogue history into a string, ending with a special token.